In this video,
we'll discuss authorization servers.
So again, what is an authorization server?
Like I mentioned earlier, it's a server
that generates tokens for OAuth 2 or OpenID Connect.
We can also use it for defining access policies
for a given application and protect resources,
and it can also serve
as an identity provider using openID Connect.
So at a very high level
that's what an authorization server is.
And like I mentioned earlier,
not all authorization servers are created equal.
You can have some very basic simple solutions
and you can also have some real-time enterprise solutions.
Okta provides a cloud based authorization server
and platform.
So Okta provides authentication support where
they provide log-in widgets.
So with these login widgets, there's no need to worry
about creating your own login pages or whatever.
You can simply use their widget drop into your application
and you can also customize it.
So a really nice feature.
They also have support for social login.
So you can log in
with Facebook log in with Twitter and so on.
There's also support for authorization.
So you can make use of role based access.
So you can define roles
and define what end points or actions
that they can perform, can also define API access policies.
And then there's also user management support.
So, you have X number
of users that you're keeping track of or managing,
they provide an admin panel.
So, no need to write your own admin panel.
You can make use
of the admin panel provided by the security solution.
You can also assign policies and so forth.
And the nice thing
about Okta is that it supports industry standards
such as OAuth 2, OpenID Connect,
JSON Web Tokens and others.
The one thing that I really like about Okta here is
that they provide a free developer account.
So there's no credit card required.
You simply just register
and then you have a free developer account.
And you can use this to support up to 1000 users, all right.
So you can really have a chance to put this product
or platform through its paces
and see how it works out for you.
And we use Okta in our e-commerce store.
Also, when you develop applications using OAuth 2,
OpenID Connect, JSON Web Tokens, and so forth,
if you do it yourself, there's a lot
of low level boilerplate coding that you have to create.
But Okta provides SDKs for Angular, Java
and other programming languages.
And so these SDKs provide a high level of abstraction,
helps to accelerate the development process.
And it also provides these log-in widgets
that I mentioned earlier, that you can customize to look
and feel, add your own color scheme,
your own CSS, logos, and so forth.
And we'll see how to do this for our project coming up.
Alrighty, so let's look at the Okta integration.
So we'll have our normal Angular front end,
Spring Boot back-end that we've already developed.
And then we're going to integrate with Okta.
So Okta will provide a sign-in widget.
It'll help us with the authentication, authorization
and also Okta provides user management.
So our information will be stored there
at the Okta website, okta.com.
And we'll be able to integrate this
into our application and I'll show you all the steps
on how to make this integration happen.
All right, so before we get
into all of the coding and so forth, let's take a look
at a quick demo of the application and just to see
how the log-in, log-out functionality will work.
So just swinging into our application here.
And notice up in the top right we have
this new button here called login.
Ooh, I like it.
So when we click on the login button we'll integrate
the Okta sign in widget.
So this is the widget from the Okta website.
I've customized it with the luv2code logo
and I'll show you how to do that in the coding.
And just to start out here, I'll just enter a bad username
and also a bad password and attempt to log in.
And so it'll say, hey, unable to sign in.
Okay, that's good.
And let's go ahead and give a good username.
And also the password.
So now we're successfully logged into our application.
So one thing to notice up in the top right
it says welcome back and it gives the user info.
In this example, it's Demo Darby
and also the login button has changed to the logout button.
And so we'll actually add this functionality
when we develop the application.
So you'll see how that part all works.
And know let me kind of zoom out for a second.
So other than that
that's really the only thing that's changed.
There's nothing really new.
In feature videos will add support for protected pages,
so we'll have these VIP pages for logged in users.
And so VIP stands for very important person.
So again, like a special member area only available
to people that are logged in.
And then we'll also add support
for adding tracking information for logged in users.
So users can track their previous orders
that were placed here on our website.
All right, so a lot of good features that are coming,
let's go ahead and get started and focus in on the login in,
log out functionality.
Alrighty, I'll see you in the next video.